Well, we've had a couple of different videos on authentication, and we've now established that we
want to go with fundamental option number two, where we're going to make sure that each service understands
what authentication is and how to determine whether or not someone is logged in.
Now, in all these different videos over here on the left hand side, we've been saying that we are
going to have some request to do something.
And the authentication mechanism was going to be a JSON web token, a cookie or something very similar.
So now in this video, in the next couple, we're going to establish exactly how we are going to prove
that a user is authenticated.
In other words, are we using JSON Web tokens?
Are we using cookies or what?
Well, first thing I want to do is establish the difference between JSON Web tokens and cookies.
I'm going to kind of assume that you're vaguely familiar with both these.
So I'm really just going to give you a quick reminder.
Most importantly, biggest thing I want you to understand here and the biggest thing I want you to recall
is that JSON Web tokens and cookies are not the same thing.
They are not equivalent by any stretch of the imagination.
Let's take a look at a series of diagrams and just get a quick reminder on what a cookie is and what
a JSON web token is and how they are similar and how they are different.
Well, first begin with cookies.
So we're going to imagine that we've got some browser.
Making a request over to some server.
When the server sends a response back over to the browser, it can optionally include a header of set
cookie and then for that set cookie header, it can provide some kind of value.
This value right here can be a string that contains any information that we want.
That little piece of information is then going to be automatically stored inside of the browser.
Then whenever this browser makes a follow up request to the same domain with the same port, the browser
is going to make sure that it takes that little piece of information right there and appends it onto
the request as a cookie header.
So there's that little piece of information right there.
It will be automatically sent over to the server.
The key things to understand here around this cookie approach or this idea of saving some cookie is
that it's some arbitrary piece of information.
Doesn't really matter what this information is.
It can be anything we possibly can think of.
That piece of information will be automatically stored by the browser and automatically sent to the
server any time we make a follow up request.
Those are the key things to remember about cookies in general.
It's now off to JSON Web tokens.
So remember, with a JSON web token, we are going to take some arbitrary piece of information that
we refer to as the payload.
So this can be some kind of object that has maybe a user ID, a favorite color, just about any information
that we can possibly think of.
We're then going to take that payload and throw it into a JSON web token creation algorithm.
It's then going to spit out our JSON Web token that looks like an encoded string like this right here
or some kind of token.
Stored inside this thing is that original payload.
We can very easily take that string right there, throw it into some kind of decoding algorithm and
extract the original object.
So at any point in time, we can always access the information that is stored inside the token.
Once we have this token, we eventually do need to communicate it between the browser and the server.
There were a couple of different methods that we can do or use to actually do this communication.
So whenever the browser makes requests to the server, it's going to want to include that JSON web token
in one way or another so that the browser can prove that it is authenticated or it is logged in with
this particular server.
To communicate that token over some very common approaches are to include an authorization header that
has the JSON web token inside of it.
We can just throw the entire token inside the body of a request, assuming that it is a post request
or a put or a delete and so on.
Or alternatively, we can also kind of mix and match here and take that JSON web token and store it
inside of a cookie as well.
So the JSON web token will be managed automatically by the browser and included on all follow up requests.
All right.
So just to recap what we kind of recovered or recalled inside this video, differences between cookies
and JSON Web tokens.
Cookies are a transport mechanism.
They're a way of communicating information between the server and the browser, and they do not necessarily
do anything closely coupled to authorization.
We use them for authorization, but that's not necessarily the primary purpose of the primary goal of
them.
It's not the only thing they can do.
We can use cookies to move any kind of data between the browser and the server, so it doesn't have
to be authentication related stuff.
It can be tracking information.
It can be some kind of visit counter just about any kind of data we can easily store inside that cookie.
And then finally, cookies are automatically managed by the browser.
You and I, as developers specifically on the browser side of things, don't really have to worry about
managing managing them in any way, shape or form.
All you and I have to do on the server is set a cookie, and then we can be pretty much guaranteed that
we'll always come back in all follow up requests.
Jason Webb tokens, on the other hand, are all about authentication and authorization.
That is what they are intended to serve.
Inside of a JSON web token, we can store any form or structure of data that we want.
So it's traditionally going to be an object with some number of key value pairs.
And then Jason Webb tokens have to be managed manually by you and I as developers on the front end,
unless we are storing that JSON web token inside of a cookie.
All right.
So now that we've established the difference between these, again, I just want you to recall that
back inside this diagram where we said, oh, yeah, our authentication thing is a JSON web token or
a cookie.
It's kind of misleading to make these things sound equivalent because they are two very different things.
The cookie is just a transport mechanism.
It's something that's going to hold information.
It can be any kind of information.
It's not necessarily tied to authentication, JSON Web tokens.
On the other hand, traditionally all we use always used for authentication and authorization.
All right.
So now we've established the difference here.
We need to take a deeper look at both these things and decide, based on some pros and cons, which
one is more appropriate or which approach or combination of the two is most appropriate for handling
authentication inside of a microservices architecture.
Let's take care of that in just a moment.